---
layout: post
title: Slow internet under Ubuntu or Linux
updated: 21 Jul, 2010
---

h2. Fix one: DNS issue

Ever since I started using Linux, I've run into issues regarding internet performance; it was unstable - it would take it several seconds, sometimes 10-20, to look up the host for most sites. Overall, it was very unstable - and rather unusable for a heavy surfer like me.

Download speed, and basically everything but the browser worked fine. Thus, I concluded that it could have something to do with the DNS - and I was right. I switched to "OpenDNS":http://www.opendns.com/, and it was running normally - here's [the guide from "OpenDNS":https://store.opendns.com/setup/device/ubuntu/ on configuring OpenDNS on Ubuntu, should you be using another Linux distro., simply Google something like *linux-distro opendns*.

I also stumbled upon "Namebench":http://code.google.com/p/namebench/ in the process, which is a little Python application that attempts to find the fastest DNS for you - which you can use to optimize performance further.

h2. Fix two: IPV6

Currently, the standard for IPs is IPV4 - the thing is, that there's always a limit towards to maximum number of IP-adresses available. We're nearing this limit rapidly with IPV4, and therefore IPV6 is set to replace the old IPV4. [1] However, some providers doesn't support IPV6 yet, and Linux might attempt to use IPV6, conclude it fails, and then use IPV4 - each time it connects. This can be result in bad performance. Luckily, you can disable the IPV6 kernel  module, which fixes this.

h3. Fixing on Debian-based systems

I don't know for sure, if this is the routine on anything non-debian based. I know this is not the way to go on e.g. Arch Linux. Debian-based systems include Linux Mint and Ubuntu.

bq. You should be able to disable IPv6 by adding %(fixed-width)ipv6.disable=1% to kernel boot parameters (editing Grub config in %(fixed-width)/boot/grub/menu.lstand% running %(fixed-width)sudo update-grub% as instructed for example here). [2]

h3. Other distros

Again, use Google and you'll probably be geared towards a Wiki, or forum thread for your specific distro.

fn1. "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPv6":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPv6

fn2."http://superuser.com/questions/67921/slow-website-loading-on-ubuntu-karmic":http://superuser.com/questions/67921/slow-website-loading-on-ubuntu-karmic
