---
layout: post
title: Quotes
published: true
---

Quotes are beautiful, because beauty is raising curiosity.

This is my evolving growing list of favorite quotes. Originally I planned to add why I like them, but I've left them beautiful.

“Perfection is achieved, not when there is nothing more to add, but when there is nothing left to take away.” 
- Antoine de Saint-Exupery

"Make things as simple as possible but no simpler."
- Albert Einstein

"Less is more." 

"Those who are crazy enough to think they can change the world usually do."
- Steve Jobs

"Don't compare yourself to others. Compare yourself to the progress you've made."

"The potential of greater good goes right along with the potential for greater evil."
- Larry Wall

"Humans are allergic to change. They love to say, 'We've always done it this way.' I try to fight that. That's why I have a clock on my wall that runs counter-clockwise."
- Grace Hooper

"Great minds discuss ideas. Average minds discuss events. Small minds discuss people."
- Eleanor Roosevelt

"Everything goes with bacon!"
- Grant Achatz, Alinea

"In theory there is no difference between theory and practice. But, in practice, there is."
- Jan van de Snepscheut

"Experience is what you get when you didn't get what you wanted."
- Randy Pausch

"When you don't create things, you become defined by your tastes rather than ability. So create."
- why

"If you live each day as it was your last, someday you'll most certainly be right."
- Steve Jobs

"You can't connect the dots looking forward; you can only connect them looking backwards."
- Steve Jobs

"Stay hungry, stay foolish."
- Whole Earth Catalog

"Make every detail perfect. Limit the number of details."
- Jack Dorsey

"If I had asked people what they wanted, they would have said faster horses."
- Henry Ford

"Pressure makes diamonds"  
- General George S. Patton

"Change only takes place through action."
- Dalai Lama

"Bad ideas are just waiting to become bad ass."

"Shut the hell up and do it."

"The greatest advantage usually's also the biggest disadvantage."

"Experience comes from bad judgement."
